# zk-regex-compiler

A compiler CLI in [zk-regex](https://github.com/zkemail/zk-regex/tree/main).

## Installing zk-regex-compiler

You can install the project with npm. In the project directory, run:

```sh
$ npm install
```

This fully installs the project, including installing any dependencies and running the build.

## Building zk-regex-compiler

If you have already installed the project and only want to run the build, run:

```sh
$ npm run build
```

## Compiling zk-regex-compiler to wasm

### For web usage
Install `wasm-pack` if not already installed

```sh
cargo install wasm-pack
```

Compile the web package

```sh
wasm-pack build --target nodejs
```

Pack the package (optional)

```sh
wasm-pack build --target nodejs
cd pkg
npm pkg set type='module'
wasm-pack pack
```

The output package file will be `packages/compiler/pkg/zk-regex-compiler-1.1.1.tgz`

### For tests

```sh
wasm-pack test --node
```

## CLI Usage
Please see "Compiler CLI" section in [zk-regex](https://github.com/zkemail/zk-regex/tree/main).

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm install`

Installs the project, including running `npm run build`.

### `npm build`

Additional [`cargo build`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/commands/cargo-build.html) arguments may be passed to `npm build` and `npm build-*` commands. For example, to enable a [cargo feature](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/features.html):

```
npm run build -- --feature=beetle
```

#### `npm build-debug`

Alias for `npm build`.

#### `npm build-release`

Same as [`npm build`](#npm-build) but, builds the module with the [`release`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/profiles.html#release) profile. Release builds will compile slower, but run faster.

### `npm test`

Runs the unit tests by calling `wasm-pack test --node`.

## Project Layout

The directory structure of this project is:

```
zk-regex-compiler/
├── Cargo.toml
├── README.md
├── package.json
├── src/
|   └── lib.rs
└── target/
```

### Cargo.toml

The Cargo [manifest file](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html), which informs the `cargo` command.

### README.md

This file.

### package.json

The npm [manifest file](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/package-json), which informs the `npm` command.

### src/

The directory tree containing the Rust source code for the project.

### src/lib.rs

The Rust library's main module.

### target/

Binary artifacts generated by the Rust build.

## Regex Limitations
The regular expressions supported by our compiler have the following limitations:

- Regular expressions where the results differ between greedy and lazy matching (e.g., .+, .+?) are **not** supported.
- The beginning anchor ^ must either appear at the beginning of the regular expression or be in the format (<Any Characters>|^). Additionally, the section containing this ^ must be non-public (`is_public: false`).
- The end anchor $ must appear at the end of the regular expression.
- Regular expressions that, when converted to DFA (Deterministic Finite Automaton), include transitions to the initial state are **not** supported (e.g., .*).
- Regular expressions that, when converted to DFA, have multiple accepting states are **not** supported.
